# database_project
A course project of development of a linkedin-like website

In this project, your goal is to design a database that can serve as a relational backend for a new social networking site called Jobster that focuses on graduating students looking for jobs. In particular, the site should allow students to sign up and post their resumes and other information. Companies can also sign up and post information about themselves and job announcements. Students can decide to follow certain companies (which means they will get all job announcements by those companies), can apply for jobs, and can friend other students and forward tips and job announcements to their friends. Both companies and students can also search for matching applicants and job descriptions. All the data about students, companies, jobs, connections, and notifications must be stored in a relational database, and a web frontend will be designed in the second part of this project to access the database and present the content to users in a nice form.

Problem Domain: In your system, there are two classes of registered users, students and companies. Students that have signed up for the service can upload a profile consisting of basic information. Students can invite other students to be their friends, and can accept or reject such requests from others. Companies that sign up can post a basic profile of their company. Afterwards, companies can post announcements for open positions (i.e., job announcements). A job announcement should contain some basic information such as the company name, the job location, the job title, the salary, and the required academic background plus a longer textual description of the position.

Students can find interesting positions by browsing, by searching by keyword (say, on job title, location, description, or all of these), or by following a company, which means that the student will be notified of any new job announcements of that company. Students can also forward any job announcements they find or are notified of to their friends, and a student should be able to apply for a particular job. In addition, companies can push job announcements to suitable students by running a filter condition against all students’ information – this means that all students whose university, major, GPA, or resume matches certain keywords and other conditions chosen by the company will be notified of the job, even if they did not sign up to follow the company. 

The system described here has of course many similarities with existing systems such as LinkedIn. Note that friendship is mutual, as in LinkedIn and Facebook, while following is unilateral as in Twitter. Any notifications (friendship requests and answers to such requests, messages from friends, notifications of new jobs, applications by students for a job) should also be stored inside the database. Then the next time a student or company logs into the web site or reloads a page, appropriate queries are run to display any new notifications. Finally, students should be able to restrict access to their information (say, their GPA and resume) so that it is only visible to their friends and to those companies that they have applied to; other students and companies can only see their name, major, and university. However, companies may still push notifications to students using filter conditions on the restricted content, though they may not be able to see which students receive them.

For the second part of the project, you have to create a web-based user interface for the database designed in the first project. In particular, students and companies should be able to register and post profiles. Students should be able to post resumes, follow companies, connect with friends, recommend jobs to friends, and apply for jobs, while companies should be able to post jobs and to broadcast jobs to students that match certain criteria as determined by the company. Note that you have more freedom in this second project to design your own system. 

After a user logs in, she should probably come to a personalized start page where she might see a feed of items that are relevant to her. You can decide what would be interesting to display here, but note that there are two types of users, students and companies, that have a different view of the site. Users should then be able to browse the site; for example, when looking at a company, they should be able to click to get a list of jobs at the company, and vice versa. There should also be some way to search using keywords that are matched against resumes, job titles, company names, or keywords in the job descriptions etc. Finally, students should be able to restrict who can see their information, and should be able to connect to friends and send messages, while companies should be able to message students with job announcements. Users should be able to perform all operations via a standard web browser. This should be implemented by writing a program that is called by a web server, connects to your database, then calls appropriate stored procedures that you have defined in the database (or maybe send queries), and finally returns the results as a web page. 

Your interface must take appropriate measures to guard against SQL injection and cross-site scripting attacks. To prevent SQL injection you can use stored procedures and prepared statements (if your programming language supports them). To guard against cross-site scripting, outputs to be returned to user’s browsers should be checked/sanitized to avoid scripts. You should also define appropriate transactions to make sure that multiple users can use the site at the same time. Make sure to address these two requirements (protection against SQL injections etc., and concurrence).
